Hello and welcome back.
In the previous lesson we learned how to print strings to the terminal.
A good step forwards for our Triple X game.
Now Triple X is based around three numbers. So we need a way of working with some data in our code which
is why we're going to be having our first look at variables in this lesson. We can use variables to store
data that we can then use in our program.
And a lot of our game is going to be based around variables. To use variables in C++
you first must declare them in your code. When we declare a variable
we are reserving a space in the computer's memory for it.
Here's an example of a variable being declared in C++.
Variables are declared by giving a data type and a name. "int" is the data type here and "a" here is the
variable's name.
Here we can see after the variable name we have an equal sign and then a value.
This is giving a value to our variable.
When we declare it this is known as initializing a variable.
If we didn't initialize a variable meaning if we didn't have the equal sign and the value here this
would be known as an uninitalized variable. We'll be coming back to uninitialized variables at some
point in the section.
But for now let's go ahead and declare a variable in our file. Inside our main function,
let's add two new lines underneath our messages.
We print out at the start of our game just to make it a bit easier to read our code.
Now let's declare a new variable that we can use in our game.
First we need the data types so we're going to be working with an integer so to declare an integer in
C++ we're going to write "int" and then we want to add a space and then name the variable let's just
name it "a".
So this variables name is now "a".
Now let's add another space and then initialize this variable by inserting an equal sign and then another
space and then the value.
We want this variable to have so we can use any number here.
I'm just gonna use four and that's finish this line off with a semicolon.
I'm also going to add another new line so it's separated from the return statement of the main function.
This is just to make it a bit easier to read.
Okay great.
We've now declared an integer variable in our file with the name of "a" and I've initialized it here with
the value of 4.
Now let's try output the value of our variable to the terminal so we can see it when we've run our program
to do this.
Let's add another two new lines and then let's write out "cout" just like we did in the previous lesson
but this time instead of using a string we can print the value of our variable just by inserting its
name here which is "a" and then followed with a semicolon.
Okay great so let's save our file and then compile our code and that's run Triple X. So it's now printing
our variable but it's printing it on the end of my line so I won't need to solve this problem.
Pause here and think back to the previous lesson and try to make the value of our variable get printed
out onto a new line.
Okay so I've now changed my code so the value of my variable is now printed out onto a new line. To do
this
I called end line from the standard namespace just like we did in the previous lesson.
Now Triple X is all about trying to figure out a three number code.
The player is going to receive hints at the start of the game as to what the three number code adds up
to and also the result of the code being multiplied by itself.
Our variable that is named "a" is going to represent the first number of this code and I want you to declare
two new variables to represent the other two numbers of the code. Declare an integer and give it the
name of "b" and then initialize it with any value you want and declare another integer and give it the
name of "c" and again initialize it with any value you want.
So pause here to declare and initialize your variables and then we can continue
so hopefully you should have declared two more integer variables in your code.
You should have a, b, and c.
Now we want to declare "b" and "c" close to where we declared "a". We don't want "b" and "c" to be declared a further
down in our files.
So make sure that you've declared them underneath "a" on separate lines like I have in my code.
Now how can we go about printing out to the terminal the values of a, b, and c being added together.
Well it's pretty easy to do follow along with me here instead of printing out a value, lets prints out the
sum of a, b, and c by making use of the addition operator which is the plus symbol so we can type out
"a + b + c" then just make sure that the line ends with a semicolon.
Now let's compile our code.
And let's run the program.
And we can see now that the sum of our a, b, and c variables now get printed out to the terminal.
Awesome, but there's an even cooler way to do this in our code underneath where we declared c we can
insert a new line and another new line and we can declare another integer called "sum" and we can initialize
it by typing out "a + b + c" followed by a semicolon and instead of printing out "a + b + c" we can
just print out the variable which has named "sum" now if we compile our code and run the program we get
the same results but we've learned that we can initialize variables by adding other variables together
that we've declared previously in our code.
Awesome stuff.
So we've used the addition operator here which is just one of many arithmetic operators.
Now notice that one of the operators here is the multiplication operator for the final challenge of
this lesson.
I want you to declare the product of a, b, and c meaning the values of a, b, and c being multiplied together.
Then print this out on a new line.
So we end up printing the sum and the product of our variables.
so pause here to do this now.
Okay, so to print out the product of a, b, and c we can start off by declaring a new integer underneath
where we declare the sum we can declare a new int and name it "product" and we can initialize it by making
use of the multiplication operator.
We can type a and then insert the multiply symbol also known as the asterisk to multiply it by b and
then we can do this again to multiply a, b, and c together and we can finish off this line with a semicolon.
Now let's print out the product to the terminal on a new line.
Now instead of inserting a new line in our code we can add a space where we print out some and we can
use the two left angled brackets again and then we can call end line from the standard namespace.
And now on a new line we can call cout product followed by a new line. Then save our work and let's compile
our code and then that's run Triple X.
Amazing, so we are now printing out the product and the sum of the variables that we've declared and
we've learnt how to make use of the addition and multiplication operators.
And most of all we've learnt how to declare variables.
Great stuff.
So that wraps up this lesson when you're ready.
I'll see you in the next one.